Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
The 2000 election
was a street brawl
for the presidency
of the United States.
What happened in Miami
changed this country. forever.
While Democrats wanted
to do the right thing.
Republicans wanted to win.
The election was lost
in many different places.
But it was stolen in Miami.
...Branch One or Battalion 44.
Get ahold of OES there
at the command post
and let's push it
all the way out
to the edge of the city
of Ventura.
Take a look at this.
It has exploded into 500 acres.
These high winds.
not so good with the helicopter.
We're working our way
over there.
but we can tell you
that this is burning very close
to Santa Paula.
It's right off the 126
and the 150.
The 150 is actually the road
that takes you to Ojai.
Just wanna make sure
you're aware of the fire.
It's moving at
a rapid rate of spread.
There's
Thomas Aquinas University
that's in that area.
That's where
it's getting the name.
Now. there are plenty of homes
in this area as well.
If they are not evacuating.
they will be told to.
Obviously. life foremost.
property second.
-I'm in a bad spot. ooh.
- As we understood it
listening to
some scanner traffic.
they could not get
enough resources
to this fire fast enough.
There's helicopters in the air.
there's ground crews
on the ground.
but the high winds this evening.
along with the dry temperatures.
has made this into a huge fire.
and these flames continue
just to gobble up acreage
out here
and keep moving out
to the west.
What are you making?
NOÉMIE DUMONT MILANO:
I'm making a cheese-slash-potato
French dish...
that I'm gonna make my husband
for the first time tonight.
on the 3rd of December.
Go.
We met in San Francisco.
We fell in love and got married.
When I was around
five months pregnant.
we decided to explore California
in the hope
to find the right place
to raise our little girl.
As we learned
more and more about California.
people kept telling us about
this special place called Ojai.
There is a place
that everybody finds
in this valley
that is home to them.
I grew up here
in the Ojai Valley.
"Ojai" is a Chumash word.
and it's a village
that's up here
in this upper valley.
And it means "moon"
or "lunar phase."
So when you're up here
and the moon comes up.
it's as if you could touch it.
NOÉMIE: We just fell in love
with the weather.
the flower. the smells.
and the animals.
Maé was born
two months prematurely
and. uh. when we move to Ojai.
she was not even two months old.
The size of a tiny
little human being.
So as a new mom.
this move across California
was pretty rough on me.
We moved here
about a month before the fire.
A house directly on the edge
of the Los Padres
National Forest.
High wind advisories
have all been upgraded
to all-out warnings
as the dangerous Santa Ana winds
are blowing big time.
NOÉMIE: Uh. I remember
telling myself.
"What's going on
with this wind?"
I went outside. I was like.
"This is not normal."
I just had a feeling.
I knew that something bad
was gonna happen.
-911 OPERATOR: Fire paramedics.
We were just sitting
out on the front porch
and I noticed. uh.
an orange glow and smoke.
It's really blowing up now.
We have a fire.
We are in a house here
at Anlauf Canyon Road
above Steckel Park.
911 OPERATOR:
Is your structure threatened?
Yes. it is.
The first engine that arrived
was from Upper Ojai.
The fire captain got in
and he said. "Look.
it's in Anlauf Canyon.
but we can't access it yet."
It was a total envelopment
of Anlauf Canyon in flames.
50 acres of hell.
Basically. we had
about 30 engines ordered
in the first 10 minutes.
Has anyone reported a fire?
911 OPERATOR: Yes. ma'am. It was
Saint Thomas Aquinas College.
that's--
that's where it started.
We're almost next to them.
-What should we do?
-911 OPERATOR: Yes. ma'am.
You do what you feel is best.
For the Highway 150 corridors.
we move into Santa Paula
for immediate evacuation
of approximately
500 residences.
Sheriff's office!
-Fire!
-911 OPERATOR: Fire paramedics.
We're on Wheeler Canyon Road.
and there's no fire engines here
for structure protection
or anything.
and the fire is coming down
the mountain right now.
This area has to be
evacuated right now.
I'm not kidding around!
Winds
on the ridgetop probably...
-...it's 40 to 50 miles an hour.
Active long-range spotting.
Where are the fire department?
911 OPERATOR:
They're all there. ma'am.
-They're all there.
- No. they're not!
We're surrounded by fire
and we can't get out.
-We have no help!
My mom's stuck
in the fire down there.
and she can't get out.
She's with my brother.
The tree right above my house.
And there's embers.
Oh my God. it's starting to go.
I'm at home alone.
and I can see the flames
-coming over the next canyon.
-911 OPERATOR: Yes.
And I don't know what
to do. I can hear the crackling.
There was just
fire absolutely everywhere.
It was getting so bad.
I couldn't breathe.
I couldn't see much more
than an arm's length.
and as we were driving out. uh.
the fire was pinching off
and we barely made it out.
Go! Let's go!
And it hopscotched
from canyon to canyon to canyon
and moved. in a matter
of six hours.
what it would probably
take six days
to accomplish on a normal day
without the wind.
Residents north of Foothill.
-evacuate your home.
While all this was taking place.
a new fire started.
A transformer just blew up.
and. uh. it's going pretty good.
Very end of Koenigstein.
there's. uh--
A transformer just blew. and--
and there's a major fire
started up here.
That new fire
started in Upper Ojai.
We were being hit
on multiple fronts.
As priorities came through
for the Koenigstein Road area.
the fire apparatus
was quickly cut off
from traveling
the Highway 150 corridor.
We had burning power poles.
we had live electrical lines
down across the highway.
And that main thoroughfare
that got companies
up to Upper Ojai quick
was immediately cut off.
NOÉMIE:
It was exactly 8:00 p.m.
and I was very. very excited
because for the first time.
I was able
to just put her in bed
at the right moment.
My excitement faded pretty fast
because right after that.
I started to hear
sounds of helicopters.
We put all of the aircraft
up in the Koenigstein Road area.
but the water that you drop
is just being taken by the wind.
The aircraft called Operations
on the radio and say.
"It's unsafe for us
to be up in the air.
We're shutting down."
As it was rapidly escalating.
the potential for loss of life
was greater than anything
that I had seen before.
NOÉMIE:
When I went outside the house.
I saw this gigantic glow
up in the mountain.
And I decided to check
on the Ojai Twitter.
and I just read.
"There is a fire...
two miles from your house
with 70-miles-per-hour gusts."
I remember telling my husband.
"We gotta go now."
I woke up the baby.
put her in her car seat.
-put her in the car.
NOÉMIE: I run back
inside the house and...
...the baby starts screaming.
and I turn
and I could see
this insane. scary glow...
that was coming right at us.
We drove down
to the nearest hotel
and spent the night
watching the news.
The Thomas Fire
in Ventura County
forced new evacuations
overnight.
It is the largest
of the four fires.
and it's only five percent
contained.
Now. winds
are actually carrying the fire
toward Ojai.
We saw a wall of flames
that had to have been
300 feet or higher.
We've been hearing
the sparks and loud booms
from transformers
that have caught fire
and they blasted off.
Uh. have 'em
head toward the city of Ventura
on Highway 126.
It's at the Aquatic Center
is what we're being told
for the nighttime spot.
I hear the screaming.
"You need to evacuate!
You need to evacuate!
Search and rescue."
He says. "Sweetheart.
the fire is right there
in Bill's yard.
You have to get out of here."
I see the fire in that canyon.
and I don't wanna leave
because I spended a lot of time
to build my house.
And then all of a sudden.
the wall of flame came over.
Then I looked to the left.
and the flames are coming
up the valley.
Then I looked behind me.
and the fire
was coming behind me.
so virtually surrounded.
When I got to the perimeter
of my property.
I could see
that my neighbor's house...
was completely on fire.
I've seen a lot of fires
in the Australian Outback
and in surrounding suburbs
and around the cities.
but I'd never seen it move
this fast.
We're alive. And. uh...
You go on.
Now we have five fire fronts.
We're still dealing
with Santa Paula.
Fillmore. Upper Ojai.
and now the topography drives
this dry weather
and the wind is even stronger.
and now it starts moving
around Ojai.
and you're getting an idea now
how this is a monster.
NOÉMIE: We were
in the hotel room in shock.
And in the morning.
when my husband went
to get coffee.
one of our neighbor
in the lobby said
that he personally witnessed
our house
being attacked by flames.
As this news try to sink in.
someone knocked crazy
and just yelled.
"Get out. get out.
evacuation again."
I mean. everything is on fire.
I was extremely scared...
because we were new to the area.
I just didn't know
what was the best escape plan.
Oh. my God.
are we driving right at it?
It's okay.
this is turning away from it.
NOÉMIE: No. I don't think so.
These people are just looking.
NOÉMIE: Oh. my God.
We escaped north
through the mountains
towards Santa Barbara.
The fire got to our house
so fast the night before
that we didn't have time
to pack anything.
We just ran out.
and. uh. we didn't know
what was gonna happen next.
Going into the weekend.
red flag warnings are saturating
much of the state.
The Thomas Fire is larger
than New York City
and Boston combined.
As we're listening
to how it's just raging
towards us
down on the west end
of the Ojai Valley.
we started thinking
about the things
that we needed to gather.
We had seven cats.
three dogs. two ratties.
and two birds
to travel with five of us.
We took two vehicles.
and we drove to Santa Barbara.
As of Saturday afternoon.
8.400 firefighters
working on this fire.
Already we've seen
1.000 structures destroyed.
18.000 structures threatened.
NOÉMIE:
On our wedding anniversary.
we decided to drive back.
It was... apocalyptic.
When we finally turn
into our street.
um. I was shocked.
All those houses. so many.
they were just gone.
When we finally arrived
to our house.
I couldn't believe it.
After thinking
that your house is gone.
this feeling of knowing
that it's still there
is just amazing.
but at the same time.
I just felt so sorry
for all my neighbors.
We got really. really lucky.
Because our house
is the last house
just before the national forest.
the last fire hydrant
on the street
is actually right here.
which made it an ideal place
for the firefighters
to battle the blaze.
They were literally firing
their hoses over the house
as the fire
blew over here.
NOÉMIE: Some of my neighbors
just were not that lucky.
The people of
the Upper Ojai suffered greatly.
due. in part.
to the second start
up in the Koenigstein area.
It started right here.
I remember coming up here.
and we were already evacuate--
trying to evacuate. uh.
some of these residents up here.
and we looked at it.
we go. "Wow.
We know where it's going."
It's going right toward
your house. basically.
and everyone else's house
down there.
So the whole team is en route.
Mark Scantlin.
we went to school together.
Oh. gosh.
Mark. yes. How are you?
I'm doing all right. John.
-Were you
up here that night?
-Yeah.
-How'd it go for you?
-Oh. I lost everything.
-Oh. man.
-Everything. House--
-Yeah.
House. garage. barns. cars.
-Looked like a tornado
after it went by.
I hope the future's bright.
-We're moving.
-Are ya?
-Yeah. Yeah.
-Out of the area. or what?
Yeah. I'm done.
The Thomas Fire
currently is at 242.000 acres.
It's been burning for 10 days.
It ran through
to the western edge
of the City of Ventura
in five hours.
We evacuated in this area.
I think the estimate's around
60.000 people
in that five-hour period.
The first fire started
in the creek bed.
Within an hour of that.
we get information
that we have a second start
on Koenigstein Road.
You couldn't start a fire
in a worse spot.
We were watching it from up
on the other side of the road.
We saw it start.
we saw you guys lined up.
and we saw you guys leave.
and then it came our way.
-We couldn't get out
fast enough.
- Hmm.
Why weren't you fighting
that fire when that--
when it just started.
when it was just local.
right there?
-We have-- Hold on. Wait.
- Another question.
-Let-- let me finish. Hold on.
- You're charging
an extra tax to us.
-So. hey. we have a--
-And you're requiring us
to have hydrants.
but you won't use them?
I don't understand that.
One hose would have
reached my house
and put it out
and saved five more
from burning down on Cesar.
One hose.
Not to downplay
any of the losses.
but to not have more life loss
is pretty remarkable.
And this is the third time
I've been wearing this
this year.
How many homes did you save?
More than we lost.
I'll tell you that.
The numbers that I'm getting
on the property loss
is somewhere around 100.
uh. structures in this area.
Per capita.
that's the highest loss
we've had on a fire. Um...
That's-- that's a tough
discussion to have.
I lost my home
from the Thomas Fire.
And. uh. it take me 13 years
to build my beautiful house.
And I-- my son told me.
"Daddy. could you please
save the house?"
And I said.
"Yes. I will save the house."
My daughter
who lives in Santa Paula.
she called me and she says.
"Mom. our house is gone."
And when I saw it...
it was devastating.
I still can't believe it.
E-- Even though
I'm sitting here...
with my back to it.
And my cats...
didn't live.
We just
spray-painted some signs
on pieces of plywood
that said. "Fire relief."
And the supplies kept coming in.
That's how the relief station
was born.
Leona Mote says.
"I live right here on this road.
and I've lived there
for 54 years.
And my husband
just died in October.
And when the fire came.
I was panicking.
looking for my cats."
And I say. "Hey. Leona.
do you need any help?"
She says. "Yeah.
One of the things
that was sitting on my dresser
was my husband's size 13
wedding ring."
First thing we find.
size 13 wedding ring.
Swear to God.
The first thing
that the sifters found
was this ring and another ring.
I love the way the neighborhood
has rallied around.
It's called Star Point Ranch.
We're grateful that.
uh. we got this help
to help clean up
a bit of the mess.
'Cause as you can see.
it's quite devastating
to lose a beautiful
1930s wooden home
and all your belongings.
And we saved bugger all.
you know what I mean?
So nothing. and virtually
the clothes on our back.
basically.
After the fire.
it looked like
we had been through hell.
We couldn't breathe.
and we couldn't drink the water.
and we c--
we had to wear masks.
And it was like.
"Are we gonna be able
to live here?"
NOÉMIE: The air quality
was just so bad
that we just couldn't risk
to bring our baby back
before it got better.
The air quality
and the conditions
in Ojai Valley were untenable
by most people.
There's a lot more going on
than the fire itself.
Oh. don't try to walk. buddy.
So. it just happens to be
that this upper valley
is a place
where the people considered bear
to be their spirit animal.
That poor little bear that--
that survived the dehydration.
it must have suffered
the burning of its feet.
Great resilience.
The power and the spirit
of these animals.
even the smallest little ones.
hummingbird. butterfly.
they all have abilities that.
as human beings. we want.
Oh. it's coming.
it's coming.
And so to see it
suffer that way.
I could just feel his grief
and total sorrow.
Oh. he's thirsty as hell.
And then to think about
how many other animals
perished...
Here. pal.
Little bit more.
One second. one second.
Let's do 1.5 of Telazol
and 1.5 of water.
You can't overdose a bear
on Telazol.
so that's the good thing.
Just don't hit its lung.
No.
I got a front right shoulder.
-You guys ready?
- Yeah.
-Clean hit.
- Good shot.
So.
it was just like the last bear.
The animal had to be immobilized
so it could be assessed
for further injuries
to see if. you know.
rehabilitation is something
that we can do.
What's the weight estimate now?
- Now. about 30.
-Yeah.
- It's a he.
-It's a he. yeah.
- Okay.
-All right.
Can you tell me sort of
about the scale of this event
in terms of its effect
on the wildlife?
It's gonna be significant.
especially of a fire
of this magnitude.
you know. raging through
the Los Padres National Forest
as well as up
into the urban community.
And anytime you have wildlife.
just like people living at homes
where they're affected.
you're gonna have wildlife
that's impacted.
It was a really devastating time
for the natural world out here.
But it isn't our first time
that we've experienced fire
growing up here in Ojai.
Evacuation is now taking place.
Three quarters of the town
has been wiped out.
Blackened waste.
Entire communities
to be evacuated.
The president today proclaimed
the fires a national disaster.
We can't keep doing
what we've been doing.
And what we've been doing
is not considering.
"Well. this is a fire corridor.
We know that.
We have to rethink things."
You see something
on that side over there?
Yeah.
That means people may not
be able to build
in places they wanted to build.
and if they do build.
they need to recognize
the fire department's not gonna
be able to protect them.
And the fire agencies
in these firestorms
are basically at wits' end.
and all they can do
is try to keep people safe
and get them out of the way.
Okay. sir.
Keep your arms in for me.
Sadly. through lack
of understanding of nature
and understanding
this fire ecology.
we have allowed houses
to be built
further and further into
the urban wildland interface
right on the edge
between the chaparral
-and the urban areas.
The areas that are
very difficult to defend.
JONATHAN "YONNI" SCHWARTZ:
Well. the fire comes and goes.
but for the vegetation
to reestablish itself.
it takes a few years.
Now. concern was
how this burned landscape
is going to respond
to rainstorms.
Equally as scary to the fire
is the risk of a mudslide
or some sort of debris flow.
During the 1969 flood.
there was actually a family
living right here
that got washed out
by the amount of water
that comes off this hillside.
We were able to move back in
about a month after the fire.
just in time for the biggest
rainstorm in years.
I started digging
some trenches out back
to protect our house.
A cold front
and a squall line with lightning
is developing and moving
into the Los Angeles area.
The National Weather Service
has warned that flash flooding.
debris flow.
and mudslides are possible
in the communities
already devastated
by the Thomas and La Tuna Fires.
Mandatory evacuation
orders are in place here.
Thirty thousand people
are in these evacuation zones.
Many of these slopes
right above Ojai
have very high probabilities
of producing debris flows.
People have these big boulders
in their backyards.
really like them.
It was great landscaping.
but none of them thought.
"Well. how did these boulders
come here?"
For the second time
in about a month.
search and rescue
was on our street.
evacuating residents.
It happened in the past.
It will happen again
in the future.
That's a basic law of geology.
Developing tonight.
the search is on
for mudslide survivors
in Southern California.
Rescuers are trying to reach
13 people reported missing.
17 have already died.
Authorities say at least
100 homes are destroyed.
-washed away by the wall of mud.
- The staging area
for the urban search
and rescue efforts
-had been set up...
- Live in Montecito
where the streets are absolutely
littered with cars and debris.
I heard the rumble of the rocks
and I looked over at the river.
and the trees are just
coming down.
We were able to crawl out
our window to the roof.
House is wiped out.
Just took everything out.
And then later. we were worried
about our neighbor's house
and we went over to see if.
uh. they were okay.
and we heard
a little baby crying
and. uh. dug down.
found a little baby.
I don't know where it came from.
But. uh. we got it out.
got the mud out of its mouth.
I hope that it's okay.
They took it
right to the hospital.
But it was just a baby
four feet down in the mud.
in nowhere.
just under the rocks.
I'm glad we got it.
But who knows
what else is out there.
ALEXANDER "TREY" ROBERTSON IV:
Okay. folks. We'll go ahead
and get started.
Thank you for coming.
Collectively.
our group represents
about 455 clients
whose homes were either
completely destroyed or damaged
in the fire
or the resulting debris flow.
Cal Fire investigators
are looking at burn patterns.
how it spread.
and they specifically
are looking
at Southern California Edison's
power lines and poles.
I was sitting in our family room
that has the beautiful view
up to the Topas.
and I said. "Oh. my gosh!
I see two flashes.
two fires just started."
And it was the transformers
that had exploded
on Koenigstein.
As soon
as the transformers exploded.
our power went out.
It was about a 50-foot
wall of flame
that actually came up
and hit the house.
It looked like a war zone.
It's amazing to me in that.
in this age of technology.
we're still relying upon
World War II infrastructure
to transmit electricity.
It's-- it's just crazy.
Overall. all the fires in 2017.
you're talking
almost 10.000 structures lost.
If you count
the Montecito mudslide.
you're talking
60 plus fatalities.
I was hoping that event
would create a wake-up call
and force us to ask
the hard questions.
Should the utilities
do something to create
a more resilient system?
Absolutely.
But we have to look
at the big picture.
because what we're really doing
is putting Band-Aids everywhere.
We're not looking
at the disease.
The last drought we had recently
was the worst drought we've had
in a thousand years.
There's probably gonna be towns
in the western side
of the Sierras
that are just gonna become
drought ghost towns.
I knew my neighbors
were not doing great.
were uninsured or underinsured.
living in tents.
But there are certain times
where I'm like.
I don't wanna be waking up
at 1:00 or 2:00 in the morning.
looking out the windows when
there's 70-mile-an-hour winds.
thinking my house
is gonna burn down.
That's not normal.
It's sad
because I always thought
I'm gonna live here forever.
I raised my kids here
on this property.
And this is my new home.
I got myself
two four-month-old kittens.
And they are filling my house
with love.
This is my sanctuary.
NOÉMIE: You hear a lot
of people that say
that we shouldn't be
living here.
but I'm looking
all around the news
and seeing all of those
big natural catastrophes
happening everywhere.
and I'm just wondering.
"Where am I safe
to be living in?"
Tonight. rivers
are rising to record levels.
threatening homes and businesses
in Arkansas. Oklahoma.
Kansas. and Missouri.
Hurricane Michael closing in
on the Florida Panhandle.
It could be the strongest storm
ever to hit that area.
The Mendocino Complex Fire
is now the largest wildfire
in state history.
Sixty-six
million Americans
are bracing for impact.
In the past week.
at least 15 people
have been killed by tornadoes
and flooding.
There are more
severe storms in the forecast
for later on this week.
All burned in here.
This high up.
When we look back
at how the Native people
survived here.
their connection and their
conversation with nature
was supreme.
We can learn a lot
from the natural world.
Plants have
tremendous intelligence.
the way they've adapted
to this fire climate.
We can see corollaries
for our lives.
And I know there's a mystique
about Ojai.
uh. being a "spiritual center"
and stuff like that.
And. uh. I think that's--
I think it's in the mountains.
I think if you get up
to some of these amazing.
beautiful places up there.
you can have a spiritual
experience in nature.
Oh. my God.
Made it to the top.
Really. really spectacular.
NOÉMIE:
You know. I'm still traumatized.
You don't want nobody
to just feel
what we felt that night.
Every time I hear
the helicopters.
every time the wind picks up.
I have this scared feeling
inside me.
If we wanna continue
living here.
that's what we will have
to deal
for the rest of our time here.
And I don't know
if I'm just ready for that.
Offshore winds
begin. really. by tomorrow.
Extreme fire danger
for Southern California.
After the Thomas Fire.
after Casitas Fire.
another fire was right here
where I live right now.
My daughter see me sometimes.
that I went out of the house
and look in the stars.
and I say.
"What's going on?" You know?
A 150-acre
brush fire broke out here
at approximately
6:15 this afternoon.
My phone starts going crazy
and I look up.
and what do you know?
There's another fire.
And that's one ridge away.
Monsters come
in different forms.
Halloween Night. 2019.
there's a fire in Santa Paula.
We can see it here
from Sulphur Mountain Ridge.
And it begins again.
Okay. That's it.